# Goals
- Print RSSI to OLED screen (update with every message received)
- Add RTC timestamp to every `debug_print()` message
- Initialize reading and writing from SD card
# Work Sessions
### Session 1: 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM
Building the project with the [FreeRTOS+FAT+CLI](https://github.com/carlk3/FreeRTOS-FAT-CLI-for-RPi-Pico/tree/master) library:
- I git cloned the project (with `--recurse-submodules`, because the project has dependency on another GitHub project) then copied everything in the "src" folder into a newly created "libaries" folder of my project
- Add `set(FREERTOS_KERNEL_PATH $ENV{FREERTOS_KERNEL_PATH})` (or wherever the FreeRTOS kernel is located) to "FreeRTOS+FAT+CLI/CMakeLists.txt" (before `add_library()`)
- Then in the project's "CMakeLists.txt", add `${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/libraries` to `target_include_directories`, then `add_subdirectory(libraries/FreeRTOS+FAT+CLI)`.
- Had to set [configSUPPORT_STATIC_ALLOCATION](https://freertos.org/Documentation/02-Kernel/03-Supported-devices/02-Customization/#configsupport_static_allocation) and [configUSE_MUTEXES](https://freertos.org/Documentation/02-Kernel/03-Supported-devices/02-Customization/#configuse_mutexes) to 1 in "FreeRTOSConfig.h" to allow the use of function `xSemaphoreCreateMutexStatic`.
****
Had a bit of a scare because when I was trying to connect to the RPi Debug Probe, OpenOCD was quitting after `Info : SWD DPIDR 0x4c013477` (as in it successfully connected to the probe but then something happened). But it started working once I plugged in both the Pico and the target hardware (which I had forgotten to do).
****

### Session 2: 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM
Getting a SIGTRAP at `w43439A0_7_95_49_00_combined()`, which is somehow releated to cyw43 (after I searched for references to this in the Pico SDK). I decided to bypass this       for now by commenting out `cyw43_arch_init()`.

But then I got another breakpoint in "crash.c". Running `bt` in GDB, it seems like the crash is occuring when running `disk_init()` within `FF_SDDiskMount()`.
****
I set a breakpoint at `FF_SDDiskMount()` and am now stepping through the code.

At the start of `disk_init()`, I printed out the value of `sd_card_p` (a struct pointer that holds information about the SD card) with `print *sd_card_p` (or `p *sd_card_p`):
```
device_name = 0x3f4750f0 "", mount_point = 0x50220068 "",    
 type = (SD_IF_SPI | SD_IF_SDIO | unknown: 0x68), {  
   spi_if_p = 0x80600141, sdio_if_p = 0x80600141},    
 use_card_detect = 35, card_detect_gpio = 422772981,    
 card_detected_true = 19941472, card_detect_use_pull = 33,    
 card_detect_pull_hi = 7, cache_sectors = 1198819314, state = {  
   m_Status = 246 '\366', card_type = 225,    
   CSD = "u\200\350>\000D\362\200z\304hTE", <incomplete sequence \320>,  
CID = "\356 \aE\350\000\362\024F\022\f\370\320XN\264", 
   sectors = 552468688, mutex = 0x101a607, mutex_buffer = {pvDummy1 = {  0x20ee00d4, 0x364e5407, 0xd0011b}, u = {pvDummy2 = 0x9b0720ee,    
       uxDummy2 = 2600935662}, xDummy3 = {{uxDummy2 = 3875644441,    
         pvDummy3 = 0x3b01d5, xDummy4 = {xDummy2 = 13754155,    
           pvDummy3 = {0xd0012b, 0x3c0720ee}}}, {  
         uxDummy2 = 2527480632, pvDummy3 = 0x801f3ee8, xDummy4 = {  
           xDummy2 = 85933800, pvDummy3 = {0x4946ac25, 0x1223f0a6}}}},    
     uxDummy4 = {2422227918, 1644956904, 13631813},    
     ucDummy5 = "\356 ", ucDummy6 = 7 '\a', pvDummy7 = 0x1455128,     
     uxDummy8 = 552468688, ucDummy9 = 7 '\a'}, owner = 0xd00145,    
   ff_disk = {xStatus = {bIsInitialised = 0, bIsMounted = 1,    
       spare0 = 27, bPartitionNumber = 65, spare1 = 526},    
     pvTag = 0xea2b0433, pxIOManager = 0xd001d1,    
     ulNumberOfSectors = 3976667374,    
     fnFlushApplicationHook = 0xe23d0518, ulSignature = 19726545}},    
 init = 0x20ee00d0, deinit = 0x446bab07, write_blocks = 0x1f400e8,    
 read_blocks = 0x1429c22, sync = 0x20ee00d0,    
 get_num_sectors = 0x9c220107, sd_test_com = 0xd00142}
```

And here is the exact line that causes the crash:
```c
int ds = sd_card_p->init(sd_card_p);
```

The "init" value clearly exists, as seen when I printed out `sd_card_p`. It's a function pointer to `0x20ee00d0`. Maybe it's not a valid value?

The function I want to take a closer look at now is `bool rc = sd_init_driver();`. This is the function where a lot of the values of `sd_card_p` are populated. 

One thing that's weird is that the `type` of `sd_card_p` should be `SD_IF_SPI`, yet when I print it out in GDB it's `type = (SD_IF_SPI | SD_IF_SDIO | unknown: 0x68)`. What does that mean? Where is this set?

### Session 3: 12:00 PM - 12:50 PM
For some reason, most of `sd_init_driver()` gets skipped because somehow the boolean `driver_initialized` has been set to true already? Why? How?

I changed it to false using the GDB command `set variable driver_initialized = 0`.

I thought that would help things, as a lot of invalid values got set correctly after passing through `sd_init_driver()` (such as `type`, which finally got set to `SD_IF_SPI`). But it still crashed.

I tried checking the values of `sd_card_p->init` and compared with the address of the actual function it should be calling, `sd_card_spi_init` (`p sd_card_spi_init`) and the address in `sd_card_p->init` seems to be incorrect. I need to check the line in `sd_init_driver()` where the init function is assigned again.
****
Stepping through `sd_init_driver()` and checking some values.

`sd_card_p->spi_if_p->spi`:
```
$38 = {hw_inst = 0x40088000, miso_gpio = 12, mosi_gpio = 11,    
 sck_gpio = 10, baud_rate = 12000000, spi_mode = 0, DMA_IRQ_num = 0,    
 use_exclusive_DMA_IRQ_handler = false, no_miso_gpio_pull_up = false,    
 set_drive_strength = false,    
 mosi_gpio_drive_strength = GPIO_DRIVE_STRENGTH_2MA,    
 sck_gpio_drive_strength = GPIO_DRIVE_STRENGTH_2MA, tx_dma = 0,    
 rx_dma = 0, tx_dma_cfg = {ctrl = 0}, rx_dma_cfg = {ctrl = 0},    
 mutex = 0x0, owner = 0x0, initialized = false}
```

Stepping into `sd_spi_ctor(sd_card_p);` now (where all the functions are defined).

Here you can see the before and after assigning the init function:
```
(gdb) s  
1721        sd_card_p->init = sd_card_spi_init;  
(gdb) p sd_card_p->init  
$42 = (DSTATUS (*)(sd_card_t *)) 0x0  
(gdb) s  
1728        if ((uint)-1 == sd_card_p->spi_if_p->ss_gpio) return;  
(gdb) p sd_card_p->init  
$43 = (DSTATUS (*)(sd_card_t *)) 0x1000e029 <sd_card_spi_init>
```

Looks correct, right? `sd_card_p->init` now points to `0x1000e029`, which is the address of `sd_card_spi_init()`.

Now the moment of truth:
```c
(gdb) s  
125         int ds = sd_card_p->init(sd_card_p);  
(gdb) p sd_card_p->init  
$57 = (DSTATUS (*)(sd_card_t *)) 0x1000e029 <sd_card_spi_init>
```

Okay, it didn't crash! Or at least I can step into it now.

Now there's another issue in "sd_card_spi_init()" in "sd_card_spi.c":
```
(gdb) n  
1632        int err = sd_init_medium(sd_card_p);  
(gdb) n  
1634            EMSG_PRINTF("Failed to initialize card\n");  
(gdb) n
```

So it seems `sd_init_medium` is now the problem?

Okay, I've found the exact spot now. It's in `sd_init_medium()` at this spot:
```c
// Send CMD8, if the card rejects the command then it's probably using
// the legacy protocol, or is a MMC, or just flat-out broken
status = sd_cmd8(sd_card_p);

if (SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_NONE != status && SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_UNSUPPORTED != status) {
    return status;
}
```

The `status` that gets returned is 128, which is 2 to the power of 7. Which means:
`SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_NO_RESPONSE = 1 << 7, /*!< No response from device */`

The weird thing is that after this happens, it runs `FF_Error_t xError = FF_SDDiskMount(pxDisk);` again, except this time since `driverInitialized` has already been set to true, it skips the driver initialization and ends up with a `sd_card_p` struct with a bunch of erroneous values, which is what causes the crash. Why does it run again? Maybe some kind of exception handler? Anyway, the point is that the SD card is not responding to the CMD8.

### Session 4: 2:30 PM - 3:20 PM
I need to determine whether it's the SD card that's the problem. According to the comment in the code, if the SD card **rejects** the command then it's either using a "legacy protocol", is an MMC (multi-media card) or is just broken. The SD card is obviously NOT broken, since I can read it just fine. And it shouldn't be a multi-media card, because it was previously used as a boot drive for a Raspberry Pi, so clearly it's not just meant for media. 
****
I wanted to first confirm that the SD card reader is properly hooked up. So I removed the SD card and ran the program. Sure enough, before sending the command to the SD card, this line triggered:
```c
if (in_sd_go_idle_state(sd_card_p) != R1_IDLE_STATE) {
	EMSG_PRINTF("No disk, or could not put SD card in to SPI idle state\n");
	return SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_NO_DEVICE;
}
```

So I can confirm that the code  CAN in fact detect the SD card.
****
Somehow, the SD card is able to pass this check
```c
if (CMD12_STOP_TRANSMISSION != cmd && CMD0_GO_IDLE_STATE != cmd) {
        if (false == sd_wait_ready(sd_card_p, sd_timeouts.sd_command)) 
        {
            DBG_PRINTF("Card not ready yet\n");
            return SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_NO_RESPONSE;
        }
}
```
meaning that the SD card can in fact respond to the code. Supposedly, `sd_wait_ready` "sends dummy clocks with DI held high until the card releases the DO line". 
****
Okay, now we have a development. The SD card now has a response to the message. Maybe it's because I removed it and put it back in again?

But now, instead of getting error code 128 (no response), I've got error code 64 (card not usable).
```c
// Check if card supports voltage range: 3.3V

if (!(response & OCR_3_3V)) {

	sd_card_p->state.card_type = CARD_UNKNOWN;
	
	status = SD_BLOCK_DEVICE_ERROR_UNUSABLE;
	
	return status;

}

```

### Session 5: 3:30 PM - 4:20 PM
Ditching the SD card for now (feel a bit sad about dropping it, must be Stockholm syndrome) and moving on to something simpler, which is to implement a callback function for receiving radar input. I've already written one before, but that was receiving messages from a Python script, whereas this is the real deal, which means I'll have to carefully examine the command formatting.
****
Now the "picow-race-timer" code is getting stuck on initializing the SPI for the RTC. But it was working fine yesterday?!

Maybe I'll just deactivate it for now?

\* Start soaking veggies at the end of this session

### Session 6: 4:30 PM - 5:20 PM
I FINALLY KNOW WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON ALL DAY! You see, I noticed that the USB-C power port was kind of loose this morning, but I didn't think much of it. Well, a while ago, I tried reconnecting it and it came right off. 

I had a hunch it might be the power, because why would my "picow-race-timer" code suddenly stop working when it was completely fine yesterday? The only difference between today and yesterday was that the USB-C port was kind of loose. I'd like to think it wasn't my fault, and that it was badly soldered or that somehow "air" got in during the flight over. I don't know, but now I've got it plugged into the 12V power supply from the Wi-Fi router I've got tucked away in the closet. And everything finally works. I suspect that the SD card reader would also have worked fine if the power was OK, so I've possibly solved two problems already.
****
Modified my radar callback function code to more accurately parse the messages from the radar. There's still some stuff that needs to be refined, mainly I need to confirm that my bitwise operations are accurate (e.g. combining 2 bytes into one number). Also, there's still a ton of message types that aren't accounted for yet. Currently it only recognizes people counting and heart measuring messages.

Here's an example of the output of my program:
```
RADAR UART received: 0X53 0X59 0X86 0XA 00 0X2 0X1 0X1 0X40 0X54 0X43                      
Frame header 0x5359 found!                                             
Control word = 0X86                                                    
Command = 0XA                                                          
Lengh identification = 00 0X2                                          
Length is 2                                                            
Control word Received end.                                             
is for people counting.                                                                    
Data = 0X1 0X1                                                         
Getting real time people count. MIN = 1 MAX = 1                                            
Frame tail 0x5443 found!                           
```
# Further Notes
- I was asking why we didn't put the configuration file on an SD card instead (since writing to flash is such a pain since it's also acting as memory) and the reason is that for all its problems, internal flash is much more stable whereas an SD card can always be loosened and wears out far more easily. This connects back to when I was working on the Boot Image Manager and why there was both an "on-chip" and "off-chip" solution for storing firmware images. "Off-chip" is slower and less stable, but is thread-safe and cheaper (hence why there's so much space in the external flash). "On-chip" is more costly but faster and has a more stable connection.
