# Goals
Diagnose why GPIO pins 0 and 1 are not working for PIO

# Debug GPIO 0 and 1
First, I'm going to check if the I2C interface works on GPIO 0 and 1.

It doesn't! The weird thing is that it works on all the other pins, even GP6 and GP7 which were initially giving me problems. It definitely doesn't have anything to do with I2C0 (GP8 and GP9 always work fine even though they are connected to I2C0).

At first I was wondering if somehow there's a clash between the UART and I2C interface on GP0 and GP1, but I don't think that's the case. I've already set the functions correctly, and even changing the default UART0 pins via compile options in CMake (`set(PICO_DEFAULT_UART_TX_PIN 28) set(PICO_DEFAULT_UART_RX_PIN 29)`)doesn't do anything.
****
GP1 is the problem. After several frustrating failed attempts led me to realize that only one of the probes on the Logic Analyzer is working, I finally confirmed that during the I2C bus scanning only GP0 (SDA) has any output while GP1 (SCL) is dead silent. This is not the case on other GPIO pin pairs where the I2C device is successfully detected.

So the issue is that I2C read is not working (on either I2C hardware interface or PIO) because there's no clock signal on GP1. And without a clock, it doesn't matter what gets sent via GP1, it's just gibberish.
****
Okay, I have officially confirmed GP1 is the problem. I switched back to using PIO, removed the `assert` that requires the the GPIO pins to be consecutive, then set SDA to GP0 and SCL to GP2. And guess what, it works!
****
Made a weird discovery, grounding GP1 (or connecting it to 3V3 (EN)) somehow affects `printf()`. While it's grounded, nothing gets printed. But when I remove the wire connecting it to ground, `printf()` continues. Is GP1 somehow still responsible for `stdio`?
****
Well, it fucking works on the Pico W. 
****
I tested it on my Dad's Pico 2 W (he'd been able to connect via GP0 and GP1 this whole time, it turns out, so I just wasted the whole day fretting over nothing), and it works. So the problem really was with the GP1 pin on my Pico 2W. 
****







