# Goals
- Reset the CC1312R on startup
- ~~Brainstorm a way for the program to recognize outdated configuration file~~
- ~~Prepare a Python script that uses pyOCD to erase the flash~~
- ~~Polish your pyOCD tutorial~~
# Reset CC1312R
The CC1312R reset pin is connected to GP2 on the Pico.

The CC1312R reset pin is usually in a high state. A reset is triggered by pulling it low.
****
Wasted a lot of time, but I finally know how to properly reset using the reset pin.

The fact that the on-board CC1312 does not have an LED flash to indicate the reset happened, nor does it have an exposed reset pin for me to attach the logic analyzer to, really makes it hard to diagnose what is happening. It wasn't until I did what I should have done from the beginning (set up an exposed version of the whole thing with my breadboard and CC1312R launchpad) that I found out that **the reset occurs at the rising edge!** That is, you pull it down, then pull it up before the reset starts!

```c
void reset_cc1312(){
    gpio_init(CC1312_RESET_PIN);
    gpio_set_dir(CC1312_RESET_PIN, GPIO_OUT);
    gpio_pull_down(CC1312_RESET_PIN);
    sleep_ms(1000);
    gpio_pull_up(CC1312_RESET_PIN);
    gpio_deinit(CC1312_RESET_PIN);
    sleep_ms(3000);
}
```
****
Even after confirming that the reset was working on the CC1312R Launchpad, I still wasn't able to get a response from the on-board CC1312R. After a lot of frustrated retries, I took a closer look at the debug logs and realized that the UART interrupt handler actually notifies the AT UART task once, but the response that gets read from the queue is empty. 

Here's the code for reading from the queue:
```c
char* readQueue(){
    char* start; //Pointer to start of message
    char* end; //Pointer to end of message. Will increment by 1 for every character read from queue

    int length = 0;
    
    start = (char*)malloc(256 * sizeof(char));
    memset(start, 0, 256);
    end = start;
    
    //Read and empty the entire queue
    while(uxQueueMessagesWaiting(at_queue) != 0){
        xQueueReceive(
            at_queue, 
            end++, //Move pointer forward by 1 for every character read
            0
        );
        //debug_print("Character - %c\r\n", *(end-1));
        length++;
    }

    //debug_print("Emptied queue of length %d\r\n", length);
    return start;
}

```

To make sure that the queue was being properly read, I printed out `length` and also printed out each character as it was being read from the queue. The queue did in fact contain "AT OK", which meant that the CC1312R was in fact responding correctly. It was the Pico that somehow couldn't recognize the response.

Eventually, I realized that, for whatever reason, the response started with a null terminator `\0`. And as we know, in C, a null terminator always represents the end of a string. So if a character pointer points to a null terminator, printing out that character pointer will print out nothing (even if there are actual characters after the null terminator). 

At first, I tried incrementing the `start` pointer until it did not contain a null terminator in the `readQueue()` function. But then this would lead to a hard fault later when I tried to free `start`. I didn't really look into it, but it's probably because I allocated memory to `start` when it was pointing to a certain address, incremented it, and then tried to free it even though it was pointing to a different adress than when it was intialized. 

Strangely, the solution turned out to be really simple. In the interrupt handler, I simply don't add any null terminator characters to the queue.

```c
irq_handler_t at_uart_irq_handler(){
    char input_char;
    //debug_print("at_uart_callback() triggered.\n");
    while (uart_is_readable(at_uart_inst)) {
        input_char = uart_getc(at_uart_inst);
        if (input_char != '\r'){
            //debug_print("Adding %c to queue...\r\n", input_char);
            if (input_char != '\0'){
                xQueueSendToBackFromISR(
                    at_queue, 
                    (void*)&input_char, 
                    NULL);
            }
        } else {
            //debug_print("Notifying Task now...\r\n");
            //Only notify Task to read Queue once there is a line break
            xTaskNotifyFromISR(at_uartTaskHandle, 0, eSetValueWithOverwrite, NULL);
        }
    }
}
```

Somehow, that fixed it.

Now there's still the question of why this issue wasn't happening with the CC1312R Launchpad, but suddenly resurfaced when using the on-board CC1312R (the firmware should be identical!). But who cares, it works now!