# Goal
Port the PIO TOF sensor code over to the larger Project Portos code.

# Hanging at PIO I2C Read
I decided to first test my test code on the hardware board first to make sure that the connections were right. 

My Dad used the Power Profiler Kit 2 to supply 3.3 V to the radar, but I figured I could just connect it to a spare Pico. So I connected IOVDD, AVDD to the 3V3(EN) pin of a Pico 2W, and the GND pin to the Pico's GND pin.

But the PIO read just wasn't working. It would hang right about here:
```
PIO I2C Bus Scan                                                      
  0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  A  B  C  D  E  F                     
00 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
```

After much mucking about (including fretting over whether I should connect the GND pin of the sensor to that of the hardware board or the Pico), I realized the problem was with my USB-C hub.

God gave me a sign when the debug probe suddenly lost power, and wouldn't turn back on no matter how many times I replugged it to the USB-C hub. It wasn't until I connected it directly to my laptop that it worked again.

I didn't think much of it, but later after lunch I tried connecting my laptop's power supply to the power port on the USB-C hub to see if that might fix things. And it did! The hub has randomly stopped worked in the past until I connected it to the laptop power supply (I think if it's drawing too much power it stops working, which is probably what happened when I connected the Pico 2W to it). 

So right now I have SDA pin connected to RD_RX and the SCL pin connected to U0_TX, as marked on the hardware board.
****
For some reason, the program kept hanging after loading the firmware and before running the ranging loop...until I removed the probe of the Logic Analyzer from the SCL pin. Don't know why, but at least it's working now.


