---
title: Write-Up Appendix  1 - Setup
draft: false
tags:
---
These are some notes on the process I went through to set up the development environment and get familiar with the very basics of a FreeRTOS project. I followed this [guide](https://embeddedcomputing.com/technology/open-source/linux-freertos-related/using-freertos-with-the-raspberry-pi-pico) but there were some parts I had to modify since I'm using the Pico W and not the Pico.

(This was all done on Ubuntu 22.04.5 LTS.)
# Downloading Tools
First, I installed the following tools for building embedded C programs.

```shellscript
sudo apt install cmake
sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi //Compiling C code for ARM
sudo apt install build-essential //Make
```

Then I downloaded the Pico SDK and FreeRTOS kernel.

```shellscript
git clone https://github.com/RaspberryPi/pico-sdk --recurse-submodules
git clone -b smp https://github.com/FreeRTOS/FreeRTOS-Kernel --recurse-submodules
```

I downloaded the files to my home library and saved their paths in an environment variable, for easy reference when preparing the build files later on:

```shellscript
export PICO_SDK_PATH=home/tobias/pico-sdk
export FREERTOS_KERNEL_PATH=home/tobias/FreeRTOS-Kernel
```

# Writing Simple Blink Program
Following along the with the [guide](https://embeddedcomputing.com/technology/open-source/linux-freertos-related/using-freertos-with-the-raspberry-pi-pico), I created a simple project to blink the on-board LED of my Pico W. 

I created a directory for the project and populated it with the 3 essential files for any Pico W FreeRTOS project:
- A "main.c" file containing my program
- A "CMakeLists.txt" file that contains a sequence of instructions for CMake
- A "FreeRTOSConfig.h" file that contains settings for FreeRTOS

Starting with "main.c", I first included all the necessary libraries. This is where I differed from the guide, since the Pico W requires the `cyw43_arch` library for blinking the on-board LED.

```c
#include "pico/stdlib.h" 
#include "FreeRTOS.h"
#include "task.h" 

#include "pico/cyw43_arch.h"
```

Then I created a Task for blinking the on-board LED: 

```c
void vBlinkTask() {
   for (;;) {
		cyw43_arch_gpio_put(CYW43_WL_GPIO_LED_PIN, 1);
		sleep_ms(250);
        cyw43_arch_gpio_put(CYW43_WL_GPIO_LED_PIN, 0);
        sleep_ms(250);
   }
}
```

Finally, I wrote the simple main function which initializes everything, creates the task and then starts the scheduler, which is in charge of deciding which task to run. Pretty simple, since I only have one task.

```c
void main() {
    if (cyw43_arch_init()) {
        return;
    }
    xTaskCreate(vBlinkTask, "Blink Task", 128, NULL, 1, NULL);
    vTaskStartScheduler();
}
```

Taking a closer look at [`xTaskCreate()`](https://www.freertos.org/Documentation/02-Kernel/04-API-references/01-Task-creation/01-xTaskCreate) and its parameters:
1.  `vBlinkTask`: This is a pointer to the function that implements the task, which I created just now.
2.  `"Blink Task"`: A name for the task that is mainly used for debugging
3.  `128`: The number of words to allocate for the the task's stack. Since the Pico W is a 32-bit system, this means we have $\frac{128 \times 32}{8} =$ 512 bytes. (This would later turn out to be a very important value, since setting it too low leads to stack overflows!)
4.  `NULL`: A parameter that we wish to pass to our created task. Since we have no need of this (for now), we just set it to NULL.
5.  `1`: This is the priority at which our created task will execute. Since there's only one task running, we can just set it to 1 without too much thought.
6. `NULL`: This specifies a Task Handle to be assigned to the created task. Task Handles are used by other functions to refer to this specific task, and are essential for sending notifications to specific tasks. I have no need of this for now, so I just set it to NULL.

For the "CMakeLists.txt" and "FreeRTOSConfig.h" files, I just copied them from this [example](https://github.com/aws-iot-builder-tools/freertos-pi-pico/tree/main/app) with very small and minor changes.

# Building the Program
I create a folder called "build" in the project directory, then ran CMake before finally running the Makefile generated by CMake:
```shellscript
mkdir build
cd build

cmake ..
make
```

Since `pico_add_extra_outputs(blink)` was added to the end of "CMakeLists.txt", a lot of different types of output files were generated, including ".bin", ".uf2", ".elf" and so on. 
# Loading Program onto Pico
The simple (but rather frustrating) way of loading a program onto the Pico is to hold down the BOOTSEL button while plugging in the Micro-USB cable of the Pico into your computer. A storage device named RPI should show up on your computer's file system, after which you can just drag and drop "blink.uf2" onto the drive. The Pico should then reboot by itself and start blinking its LED.

Obviously, it was rather frustrating to have to do this over and over again. In order to tighten the debug loop so I could make changes and test them more quickly, I fllowed this great [tutorial video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRXLxrtfU_s) on how to use "picotool" to load programs without having to replug the Pico.
# Understanding "CMakeLists.txt"  (Optional)
(Learn more about CMake [here](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/A%20Basic%20Starting%20Point.html))

My lack of understanding of the structure of "CMakeLists.txt" led to a lot of frustrations when it came to building the programs later on. So I tried going through the file line-by-line to clarify how it works. 

First, indicate the minimum version of CMake required.
```
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.13)
```
****
Then, I set the CMake variable `PICO_BOARD` to `pico_w` since I'm using a Pico W. Skipping this will cause the build process to assume I'm using a regular Pico which will cause issues later on when I start using libraries specific to the Pico W. 
```
set(PICO_BOARD pico_w)
```

For some reason, setting this variable after pulling in the Pico SDK has no effect and CMake cannot detect that the variable `PICO_BOARD` was changed, defaulting to the base Pico. I learned about this issue in this [forum post](https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=376508), which saved me from having to type `cmake -DPICO_BOARD=pico_w ..` every time I built a program.
****
Then, indicate where the Pico SDK is located (which I saved in the environment variable `PICO_SDK_PATH` earlier):
```
# Pull in SDK (must be before project)
include($ENV{PICO_SDK_PATH}/external/pico_sdk_import.cmake)
```
****
Then the same for the FreeRTOS Kernel (stored in environment variable `FREERTOS_KERNEL_PATH`):
```
# Pull in FreeRTOS
include($ENV{FREERTOS_KERNEL_PATH}/portable/ThirdParty/GCC/RP2040/FreeRTOS_Kernel_import.cmake)
```
****
Then define the project name ("blink") as well as which programming languages are needed to build the project (C, CXX which refers to C++ and ASM which refers to assembly):
```
project(blink C CXX ASM)
```
The project name doesn't seem to matter that much, so I just call all my projects "blink" which makes it easy to recycle the "FreeRTOSConfig.h" and "CMakeLists.txt" files across projects.
****
Then set the value of CMake variables `CMAKE_C_STANDARD` and `CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD` (in this case I use C11 and C++17 standards to build the project):
```
set(CMAKE_C_STANDARD 11)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 17)
```
****
Then call `pico_sdk_init()`, a function that was included with the Pico SDK:
```
pico_sdk_init()
```
(Although this is just one line of code, it actually does a lot of things and will run a lot of CMake commands to set things up for the final build process. More on this later when we get to linking libraries.)
****
Then specify the name of our executable file ("blink") and the source files it will be built from (just "main.c" for now, but with bigger projects I'll inevitably split the code into multiple files):
```
add_executable(blink main.c)
```

****
Then specify the include directories (that is, which directories contain header files that we include in our code):
```
target_include_directories(blink PRIVATE ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR})
```
Since my project is really simple and only has one header file `FreeRTOSConfig.h` in the project directory, I can just set the include directory to be the project directory. 

The parameter `PRIVATE` refers to the scope of access for these directories (i.e. which target source files can access these directories). I set the scope to be PRIVATE, meaning that these include directories are accessed only by my target executable "blink" (although it doesn't really matter since I'm only building a single target). The concept of interface scope in CMake is covered in more detail in this [blog post](https://leimao.github.io/blog/CMake-Public-Private-Interface/)).
****
Then specify which libraries should be used during the linking stage:
```
# pull in common dependencies
target_link_libraries(blink 
	pico_stdlib 
	FreeRTOS-Kernel 
	FreeRTOS-Kernel-Heap4
	pico_cyw43_arch_lwip_threadsafe_background
)
```

I was wondering why, when referring to libraries, we use specific labels like `pico_stdlib` or `FreeRTOS-Kernel` rather than providing a specific filepath.

After looking up CMake docuemntation, I've come to understand it like this: 

When we called `pico_sdk_init()` earlier, it created several library "packages" (known as [library targets](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/book/mastering-cmake/chapter/Key%20Concepts.html#targets) in CMake terms) by grouping together the relevant source files. 

It then gave each of these packages a simple label (like `pico_stdlib` or `FreeRTOS-Kernel`). These library targets are created by invoking the CMake command [`add_library()`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library).

For example, you can find the following code (describing how the "FreeRTOS-Kernel" library package is created) in `{FreeRTOS Kernel Directory}/portable/ThirdParty/GCC/RP2040/library.cmake`:

```
add_library(FreeRTOS-Kernel INTERFACE)

target_sources(FreeRTOS-Kernel INTERFACE
        ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/port.c
)
target_include_directories(FreeRTOS-Kernel INTERFACE
        ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/include
        ${FREERTOS_CONFIG_FILE_DIRECTORY})
target_link_libraries(FreeRTOS-Kernel INTERFACE
        FreeRTOS-Kernel-Core
        pico_base_headers
        hardware_clocks
        hardware_exception
        pico_multicore
)
target_compile_definitions(FreeRTOS-Kernel INTERFACE
        LIB_FREERTOS_KERNEL=1
        FREE_RTOS_KERNEL_SMP=1
)
```

All of these source files and information gets wrapped under the simple label of "FreeRTOS-Kernel".
****
Stopping here and starting the build process will produce an executable file `blink.elf`. But if we want to produce additional outputs, like `uf2`, `bin`, `hex` and `map` files, then we can add this command (also from the Pico SDK):
```
pico_add_extra_outputs(blink)
```
****
In trying to understand what was going on when running `cmake`, I wanted to get a really detailed look at how CMake processes each line of "CMakeLists.txt". Looking online, I found that you can run `cmake --trace-expand source_dir > trace.txt 2>&1` which will ouput a verbose debug log to "trace.txt".

# References
- [Using FreeRTOS with the Raspberry Pi Pico - Part 1](https://embeddedcomputing.com/technology/open-source/linux-freertos-related/using-freertos-with-the-raspberry-pi-pico)
- [CMake Documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/index.html)
