# Goals
- Erase flash by pressing a button, and add PAN ID + Radar Data Send Interval to OLED
- Test if RTC saves time after restart
# Erase Flash
- Assume that the configuration file will never be larger than 4 KB (currently it's about 500 bytes i.e. 500 characters)
- Had trouble with the GPIO buttons not being recognized. Somehow, setting the interrupt handler using a bit-mask wasn't working. Reverting back to setting it one by one using `gpio_set_irq_enabled_with_callback()` worked. So **I've ditched using the bit mask method** (not worth it anyway, since I don't have that many GPIO buttons and even with a bit mask I need to loop through the buttons a few times to do other intialization work).
- Added a new function `config_setting_erase()` to "config_setting.c" that erases the flash starting from `FLASH_TARGET_OFFSET`. Originally I was just going to expose `call_flash_range_erase()` and have the GPIO task call that, but that would mean exposing the `FLASH_TARGET_OFFSET` address as well, and that just felt like it would fragment things too much. Best to keep things segmented properly.
# Test RTC
- Can confirm that the RTC can remember the time after installing the battery.
- **New issue**: OLED completely flips out after joining the PAN. Either it literally flips (i.e. all the output gets mirrored) or it starts printing multiple layers of the same text at different positions on top of each other. I believe what's happening is that, on connecting, a new piece of information RSSI gets printed onto the OLED, which overflows the screen and leads to things going wrong. **Which means I have to implement paging now.**
# Paging
Additional information that needs to be printed on OLED:
- PAN ID
- Radar Send Interval
- PHY

Instead of dynamically printing stuff out based on which information is not empty, I'm just going to strictly set each page to contain 5 or less specific pieces of information. If it's empty, it will just print a blank line.

- Page 1: MAC address, PAN, PHY, Node status, PAN RSSI
- Page 2: Radar Min Max, Radar Send Interval, Battery Status, Datetime
- Page 3: SSID, IP address, Wi-Fi RSSI

I've got it working now using a simple global variable `oled_page`. Every time the button at GP26 is pressed, `oled_page` is incremented (unless it is equal to 2, at which point it is reset to 0).

`oled_update_disp()` has been updated with a switch statement, printing out informatio based on the value of `oled_page`.

Only issue right now is that the OLED glitches for a second every time `oled_update_radar_minmax()` is run but I'm not sure why, but only after connection to PAN is established. Not really important, since the OLED is really just used for debugging and it doesn't need to look pretty, but I could look into why this is happening. (Never mind, it's because `oled_update_radar_minxmax()` is called by the AT task after being notified by Radar Task. So it was getting called twice in quick succession, once by the Radar Task, then by the AT Task. That is probably what caused the glitching.)


