---
title: 2025-11-05
draft: false
tags:
  -
---
# Goal
Modify Pico program to **monitor the state of the PAN node**, of which there are 3. Every time the state changes, the node should send one of the following 3 messages:
- `*NODE: STATE 1 Joining`: Trying to connect to PAN
- `*NODE: STATE 3 Joined`: Successfully connected to PAN
- `*NODE: STATE 5 Orphan`: Lost connection to PAN, trying to reconnect. If the PAN has been reset, the node should automatically rejoin once the PAN is back online. This is known as **network resilience**.

After joining, the node should send a message `*NODE: NODE ADDR 0x4 JOINED PAN 0xfaa`. Save the node address for future reference.

Once all the states are tracked internally in appropriate variables, **print out the node state on the OLED**. You can switch off Wi-Fi, RSSI and power monitoring for now. 

With so much information on the OLED, it's time to **generify the print-to-OLED function** so that it loops through an array of strings and dynamically calculates the position at which to print, rather than printing specific information at specific positions on the screen.

If I have time, I have to **fix the configuration file**. Ever since the number of configurations started increasing, the read task has become really erratic, detecting erroneous write requests randomly and rejecting most of my attempts to write to the configuration file. Why is every write request filled wtih garbage?

# Issues
## Loading onto the CC1312 Chip
Tried loading the `nipper` HEX file onto the target hardware via UniFlash but encountered the following error when loading:
```
[ERROR] Cortex_M3_0: File Loader: Memory write failed: std::exception
```

When I tried verifying the image, I got this error:
```
[ERROR] Cortex_M3_0: File Loader: Verification failed: Values at address 0x00000000 do not match Please verify target memory and memory map.
```

The issue was that **I had not set the UniFlash session settings properly**. 

I had selected the CC1310 Launchpad (whose debug probe I was using to do the loading) from "Connected Devices" and then started the session. 

So of course the memory map wouldn't match, I was trying to load a CC1312R program using a CC1310 configuration! 

What I should have done is go to New Configuration, select CC1312R7 (NOT LP-CC1312R7, as we're loading onto a chip and not a development board) and then start the session. 
# Weirdly Segmented Messages
I've coded my interrupt handler to notify the UART task only when it detects a carriage return `\r` which should signify the end of a line. Yet for some reason, when the UART task is notified and clears the queue, somehow there is a line break in the queue. For example:
```
<Task gets notified, reads queue>                     
*NODE: NODE ADDR 0x4 JOINED PAN 0xfaa                                              
*NODE: S 
<Task gets notified, reads queue>   
TATE 3 Joined
```
As you can see the first message gets cut off at the second line, and only in the next notification is the rest of the second line sent off. But this is precisely the situation I wanted to avoid by clearing the queue at every line break! And the weird thing is that this doesn't happen that often, but it happens enough times that I've had to work around it by using `strcat` to combine every response into one big character array.

# Work Logs
### Session 1 - 10:45 AM - 11:35 AM
Wrote code to monitor node state but haven't tested yet. Got carried away re-writing OLED code to be more modular. Will finish organizing OLED code, and then get to testing the node state monitoring.

### Session 2 - 11:45 AM - 12: 35 PM
Tested state monitoring code and OLED update during startup. OLED generification seems to be working fine. State changes correctly from Joining to Joined on OLED. Having trouble extracting the node address though. Also, the node sometimes hangs during the joining state.

### Session 3 - 12:45 PM - 1:35 PM
Will confirm that the node address can be extracted. Then I'll update `at_uart_process()` to account for sudden disconnections (switching to `State 5: Orphan`) and reconnections, and update the internal state (and OLED display) accordingly. Finally, will test if it works by restarting the PAN. To do so, I need to input the following commands on the Collector: `AT+RST`, then `AT+START`

Ended up spending too much time getting the node address to display properly on the OLED (mostly because I need to wait 3 minutes for the node to connect to PAN). I updated `at_uart_process()` to parse messages from the node to check for state changes. Still need to do an if-check to convert the number-characters to strings (i.e. "1" should be Joining, "3" should be Joined and "5" should be Orphan). 

### Session 4 - 2:35 PM - 3:25 PM
The issue about printing onto the OLED ended up being ridculously simple. I didn't assign enough space to hold the `node_addr` and `node_stat` values of the `oled_info` data struct.

But now there's an issue with catching the changing states after initialization. When I reset the collector, the Pico detects the state change and the OLED prints "Orphan". But then when I start the PAN again, and the Pico receives the input, I get a hard fault:
```
Response is now                                                                  
 *NODE: NODE ADDR 0x4 JOINED PAN 0xfaa                                           
                                                                                 
Node address is: 0x4 of length 3                                                 
Response is now:                                                                 
 *NODE: NODE ADDR 0x4 JOINED PAN 0xfaa                                           
*NODE: STATE 3 Joined                                                            
OINED PAN 0xfaa //What is this extra incomplete text at the end? Some leftover data from a previous read that wasn't cleared out?                                                                 
                                                                                 
State is now 3                                                                   


```

It gets as far as printing "State is now 3", and the OLED gets updated. My guess is that it's the `free(start)` at the end that's triggering the hard fault. `start` must have been freed already, so trying to free something that has already been freed probably triggers the fault. I tried guarding against this with a NULL check by making it `if (start){free(start);};` , but I guess freeing a pointer does not NULL it? Okay, I asked CoPilot and it said that I need to manually NULL the pointer after freeing it. Anyway, I brought this on myself by being so careless.

Okay, now somehow it has stopped crashing when changing state from Orphan to Joined. But I don't know why. It was still crashing after I set the character pointer to NULL after freeing it. But then I added 2 `debug_print()` statements before and after the `free()` operation to see if it passed (because GDB is fucking useless at the moment, back trace reveals nothing and breakpoints aren't even working for some reason). And somehow I think the presence of these 2 print statements saved the program? I've tried restarting the PAN a few times and the OLED display has updated correctly every time.
