# Goal
At startup, turn off human presence tracking and location tracking with 2 commands.

Then, at regular intervals, send a people count query to the radar to trigger a response with the current min/max count (I still don't understand how the radar decides when to send data on its own).

# Notes
```
CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT = b'\x0a'
CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT_TIMING = b'\x0b'
CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT_TEST = b'\x8a'
```

`CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT` counts the number of people. (Sent by the collector)
`CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT_TIMING` sets the time interval between each message sent (sent by the Pico 2W, receives reply from collector with the same command code)
`CMD_REAL_TIME_PEOPLE_COUNT_TEST` queries the number of people (sent by the Pico 2W, receives reply from the collector with same command code)

In addtion:
`\x80` enables/disables human presence feature, while `\x82` enables/disables location tracking.
****
Encountered the hard fault again. Here's the output from GDB:
```
Thread 1 "rp2350.dap.core0" received signal SIGTRAP, Trace/breakpoint trap.  

unhandled_user_irq_num_in_r0 () at /home/tobias/pico-sdk/src/rp2_common/p  
ico_crt0/crt0.S:289                                                         
289         bkpt #0  
(gdb) bt  
#0  unhandled_user_irq_num_in_r0 ()  
   at /home/tobias/pico-sdk/src/rp2_common/pico_crt0/crt0.S:289  
#1  <signal handler called>  
#2  vUARTTask (pvParameters=<optimized out>)  
	at /home/tobias/Projects/freertos-pi-pico/picow-race-timer/inputs.c:47  
#3  0x10007848 in stdio_uart_init_full (uart=<optimized out>,    
   baud_rate=<optimized out>, tx_pin=<optimized out>,    
   rx_pin=<optimized out>)
```

So a breakpoint was triggered at `unhandled_user_irq_num_in_r0()`.

Here is the code from "pico_crt0/crt0.S"
```c
// All unhandled USER IRQs fall through to here
.global __unhandled_user_irq
.thumb_func
__unhandled_user_irq:
    mrs  r0, ipsr
    subs r0, #16
.global unhandled_user_irq_num_in_r0
unhandled_user_irq_num_in_r0:
    bkpt #0
```

According to the Pico C/C++ SDK documentation:

> [!Quote] Documentation
> If an IRQ is enabled and fires with no handler installed, a breakpoint will be hit and the IRQ number will be in register r0.

So that explains the `num_in_r0` in the function name.

In GDB, you can print out all registers with `info registers`. Alternatively, you can get information about just one register by specifying the name. For example, to get the contents of `r0` I run `info registers r0`, which returned:
```
r0             0x21                33
```

Referring to the Pico documentation again, for the RP2350 the value of `UART0_IRQ` is, in fact, 33.

So I can finally, without any doubt, say that these hard faults are being caused by unhandled interrupt requests from uart0. The question is, how do I disable them BEFORE the task starts?
****
I tried disabling interrupts for uart0 and uart1 on initialization (on the off chance that somehow they were being enabled by default, when they shouldn't be), but the hard fault still occurs. 

What might be happening is that an interrupt request is being received right AFTER interrupts are enabled at the start of `vUARTask()`, but before the interrupt handler is set. After all, the backtrace reveals that `vUARTTask()` was called before the breakpoint was hit. So maybe I should set the handler BEFORE enabling interrupts?
****
Okay, the crashes have stopped but since they always happened so randomly I'm still not sure if the problem is entirely gone. Logically speaking, now that the handler is set before the interrupt is enabled, there should no longer be any unhandled interrupts.
****
Since I've written a function to handle sending commands to the radar, adding in the code for disabling human presence detection and trajectory tracking was easy enough. Initially, I ran them before starting the radar UART task, with the following output:

```
Control = 82, Cmd = 00, Len=1                                            
Data 1 = 00                                                              
Sending message to radar: 53 59 82 00 00 01 00 2F 54 43                  
Control = 80, Cmd = 00, Len=1                                            
Data 1 = 00                                                              
Sending message to radar: 53 59 80 00 00 01 00 2D 54 43                  
Started RADAR UART Task     
```

Cross-checked with the Python script to make sure I was sending the correct message:
```python
def set_people_tracking_location_off():
    print("Set People Tracking Location off")
    uart_0.write(b'\x53\x59\x82\x00\x00\x01\x00\x2F\x54\x43')    

def set_people_existing_function_off():
    print("Set People Existing Function OFF")
    uart_0.write(b'\x53\x59\x80\x00\x00\x01\x00\x2D\x54\x43')
```

Then I remembered I had a slot for an initialization function in the parameter array for each UART task. So I put my initialization function in there, and it works with the only downside being that the debug message printing is all messed up because both AT and radar UART initialization is happening at the same time. I considered adding a semaphore, but that's too much trouble for a crappy debug logger.