# Goals
1. Get the program loaded onto the target hardware
2. Run the updated `collector.py` script, which will broadcast an EPOCH timestamp at regular intervals (defined in `-t` parameter) to all nodes in the PAN. 
3. Program the Pico to receive the EPOCH timestamp, and then set the on-board real-time clock to that time (perform any conversions necessary)
# Work Session Logs
### Work Session 1 - 10:30 AM - 11:20 AM
Get the program working on the target board.

### Work Session 2 - 11:30 AM - 12:20 PM
Finally got the program working on the board after changing some GPIO values and switching around UART instance numbers. A strange thing though, for some reason the AT task just wouldn't start initializing...until I commented out the line of code that starts the RADAR task. It seems like having multiple UARTs open is causing trouble? Also, even though the AT task now starts, it hangs after rebooting the node and sending an "AT". Somehow the node never returns OK.                                          

### Work Session 3 - 12:30 PM - 1:20 PM
Figured out why the RADAR task was preventing the AT task from intializing. It's because `radar_uart_inst` was still set to `uart1`, so it was probably clashing with the AT task.

Now the issue is that for some reason the Pico never receives `*NODE: State 1 Joining`. (Edit: It's probably because the CC1312R was already in a Joining State, because there's no way for me to reset it between runs)

Also, it keeps failing to connect to Wi-Fi. Not a big problem since I'm focused on connecting to the Node via the Sub-1G network, but still annoying. I'm sure it has something to do with the placement of `cyw43_arch_init()` and `cyw43_arch_enable_sta_mode()`.


### Work Session 4 - 2:00 PM - 2:50 PM
I've decided to ditch the on-board CC1312R and just connect the on-board Pico to my CC1312R LaunchPad for now, because I want to focus on getting the time-sync feature working first and the LaunchPad is more convenient because I can reset it with just the push of a button. It took me a ridculously long time to figure this out, but the Pico is actually connected to the on-board CC1312R using exposed female-to-female wires. I just had to unplug the female wire from the on-board CC1312R's RX/TX pins and connect them to my LaunchPad instead.

Getting the RTC up and running was simple thanks to this [C Pico library](https://github.com/alpertng02/pico-ds3231). Only trouble was that I forgot to change the I2C pin values in the code, but once that was done I could print the time out fine.
### Work Session 5 - 3:00 PM - 3:50 PM
The Collector sends out the following data:
```
AT+SEND=0000,0,C5480C6905000000
```

And the node receives it as:
```
*DATA: 0xaabb,0x0,-83,8 C5480C6905000000
```

Where the last bit of data is the time in EPOCH format.

Okay, actually there's a bit of work that needs to be done before it's in a proper EPOCH format.

First, split it into 2 halves of 4 bytes:
```
C5 48 0C 69 | 05 00 00 00
```

Only the first half is the actual timestamp. And since it's a little-endian system, we need to reverse it to get the actual value (don't be a dummy like me and actually reverse the whole thing, you're only supposed to reverse it in terms of 1-byte units):
```
69 0C 48 C5
```

Converting that to decimal gives us "1762412741" which is EPOCH for "Thursday, November 6, 2025 3:05:41 PM".
****
**The weirdly segmented messages strike again!**

Message 1:
```
C6905000000                                                                         
*DATA: 0xaabb,0x0,-85,8 2C720
```
Message 2:
```
C6905000000                                                                         
*DATA: 0xaabb,0x0,-89,8 4A720
```

The timestamp gets cutt off, so my program ends up reading in an incomplete value  (e.g. `2C720` when it should be `2C720C69`)

The weird thing is that when I restart the program, it's fine again. I don't think this has anything to do with my callback function, since it's only supposed to notify the Task when a line break occurs. Unless it's reading a line break where there shouldn't be one? And why does it occur randomly? 

# Further Notes
Dad told me that I didn't need to bother with the configuration file for now, but it was really bothering me that it suddenly stopped working for no apparent reason so I dug into it a bit this morning before I started the first real work session. *Turns out it was really simple.* 

Recently, I haven't bothered changing the default Wi-Fi settings in the text file because my testing hasn't involved Internet connection for quite some time. Well, some of the default values have underscores `_` in them, like the default value for the SSID which is `set_ssid`. Turns out my `verify_config()` function only allows dots and dashes, but not underscores. So THAT'S WHY ALL MY WRITES WERE FAILING! 

This also reveals how stupid my `verify_config()` function is at the moment. I mean, what if the Wi-Fi password has all kinds of symbols in it? I can't block those, can I? Forcing everything to be purely alphanumerical is a bad idea, but I'll think of some other way to prevent garbage writes in the future. For now, at least I know why it wasn't working at all. At least now it's back to it's normal state of working sometimes rather than not at all.